---
author: conall-knight
layout: post-full
title: Dublin Pub / Bar Access Survey – 3
tags: [accessibility, disability rights]
category: [articles]
---
This is part three of a series of articles in which I will be discussing as many bars and pubs in the Dublin area as possible and how accessible or inaccessible they are. So far, I have covered P.Mac’s, The Bernard Shaw, The Lucky Duck and Against The Grain.

Before I get into today’s article, here is a breakdown of how I am ranking each bar/pub I visit, all out of 5:

- Entrance

- Bar 

- Toilet Facilities 

- Space 

- Seating areas

- Floor

- Access to other floors

 

The next bar I visited on my search was The Mercantile on Dame Street. Something worth noting if you’re thinking of going here is that there are two entrances, a front and back entrance. The front entrance has steps, and as such is not accessible for wheelchair users, but the back entrance does not, and is wide enough to fit most chairs. Inside, this venue is spacious and quite easy to get around in with smooth wooden floors, but has a relatively high bar with chairs. The seating in The Mercantile is mostly chairs or stools with enough of a back to provide support, and there is space to move a chair near tables if you are not transferring. The main problem with this bar is that there are stairs throughout the building, with the bar split into different levels at different heights. This is not suitable for wheelchairs, however there is enough space you can use without encountering stairs. Finally, the bar is attached to the Mercantile hotel, and so like P.Macs, there is an accessible toilet that can be used with permission from staff.

Overall, The Mercantile gets the following scores:

Entrance: 2 / 5

Bar:  3 / 5  

Toilet: 4 / 5

Space:  3 / 5

Seating:  5 / 5

Floor:  4 \ 5

Other Floors: 1 / 5

Overall: 22 / 35

 

Staying on Dame Street, Peadar Kearney’s Pub is the next place I paid a visit to, and if you know the format of these articles by now, you’ll know it won’t be good. Andimmediately it isn’t very promising, as the entrance is narrow and could only barely fit my wheelchair. Once inside, however, things start to look up a bit. This pub is relatively spacious except close to the bar, where it narrows considerably, and the floor is tiles and slightly rough carpet. The bar itself is quite low and there are chairs beside it that can be reached, however the tables themselves and seating is not very promising, mostly small stools that don’t provide much support at small, barrel-like tables. There are no accessible toilets in this pub, with a few steps leading to the door and a very narrow corridor leading to the restroom.There are no other floors, so access to other floors is not a factor.

Overall, this is how I rated Peader Kearney’s Pub:

Entrance: 1 / 5

Bar:  5 / 5  

Toilet: 1 / 5

Space: 4  / 5

Seating:  2 / 5

Floor:  2 \ 5

Other Floors: -

Overall: 15 / 30

 
	
