---
author: conall-knight
layout: post-full
title: Dublin Pub / Bar Access Survey - 1
tags: [wheelchair accessibility, disability rights]
category: [articles]
---
As a disabled college student, I often go out with friends for a few drinks. Living in Dublin, however, this is much easier said than done, as many venues throughout the city are inaccessible. To get an idea of exactly how accessible pubs and bars in Dublin are, I have decided to go to as many as I can and I will be outlining how well each does here. You can follow me at Disabled Dubliners' Guide to Bars and Pubs on Twitter (@DisabledTo) for more on this.
The ways I will be ranking each pub/bar are as follows, each rated out of 5:
1.Entrance (Are there steps, how many, is it tight)
2. Bar (height, stools)                    
3.Toilet Facilities (Accessible? Well-kept?)
4. Space (is there adequate space to move even when few people are around)
5. Seating areas (Are there areas for sitting down, stools or chairs, table height)
6. Floor (Is it wooden or carpeted, is it slanted)
7. Access to other floors (is there a lift/ramp)

Starting on a positive note, P.Mac’s on Stephen Street. While there is a quite rough stone floor near the entrance and a step up to the door, both of which may be a problem for wheelchair users, this gastropub is overall quite accessible. The bar is low, with stools that are slightly higher than necessary, but the bar itself is easy to reach. It also benefits from being attached to a hotel, the Drury Court hotel, and so there is a well-kept accessible toilet in the hotel that can be used with permission from bar staff. 
There is a large amount of space for moving around in this venue, and so getting around should not be a problem for wheelchair users. The seating is mostly stools, however there are some comfortable chairs with backs on them if needed. The floor is made of smooth, but not slippery, wood, and is thankfully very easy to push a wheelchair on. Finally, there are no other floors, and so access to other floors is not a factor.
Overall, these are the rankings for P.Mac’s gastropub:


Entrance: 1 / 5


Bar:  4 / 5 


Toilet: 5 / 5


Space:  4 / 5


Seating:  3 / 5


Floor:  4 \ 5


Other Floors: -


Overall: 21 / 30



Unfortunately, what goes up must come down, as can be seen with The Bernard Shaw on Richmond Street. A narrow, single door with a high step leads into a narrow pub not suited for wheelchair access. The bar is thankfully quite low, the seating is mostly chairs at low tables and the floor is mostly smooth, but it is here that we first encounter a problem that will show up a lot in the future..
The toilet facilities. 
The only toilets in this building are down a set of stairs, and while these stairs are not too steep for those who are ambulatory, this excludes wheelchair users. Inaccessible toilet facilities mean that for many people like me, these venues are not reliable places to go to when going out with friends, and this fact combined with the lack of accessible toilets in most pubs and bars, as you will see in later posts and reviews, means that this is a serious issue that needs to be acknowledged.
Overall, this is how the Bernard Shaw ranks:


Entrance: 1 / 5


Bar:  3 / 5  


Toilet: 0 / 5


Space: 2  / 5


Seating:  5 / 5


Floor:  3 \ 5


Other Floors: -


Overall: 14 / 30
