---
author: Conal Knight
layout: post-full
title: The Inaccessibility Of Trains
tags: [wheelchair accessibility, disability rights]
category: [articles]
---
Later this week, I will be taking a train to Galway, and this has got me thinking about trains and how they’re often a nightmare for disabled people. Personally, I have taken great measures in the past to avoid having to go on a train, and I hope to explain why here.


Firstly, just getting on a train can lead to major problems, particularly for wheelchair users. Just last year, GoviaThamesLink , the UK-based train company, changed their company policy in a way that badly affects the disabled community, forbidding staff assistance for disabled people if it will lead to delays. The Rail, Maritime and Transport Union general secretary Mick Cash commented on this, stating that  “[he] cannot believe, in this day and age, we are telling staff to ignore the needs of disabled people if the time it will take to deploy a ramp and assist them on to the train will cause a delay” (https://www.disabilityrightsuk.org/news/2018/may/new-rail-govia-thameslink-timetable-insult-disabled-passengers). There is a petition started on Change.org by Nicky Baker to get thecompany to change this policy, however despite there being 212,541 signatures as of the 10th of June 2019, the policy remains unchanged. When I first heard about this, I was shocked to see accessibility seen as something that only matters when convenient. Surely it’s the company’s duty to make sure delays do not happen in a way that impacts on people travelling with them? However, I know from experience that I shouldn’t have been shocked by this at all. Too many times I have been left waiting for a bus only to have to wait even longer simply because I was not accommodated by a bus driver either not knowing how to deploy the ramp or simply choosing not to. However, as I will now outline, the problems don’t end once you’re on the train.


A major problem that arises in relation to train travel is also a common bus problem: the wheelchair bay being occupied. On trains, however, it’s usually people’s luggage that occupies these spaces, and combined with how crowded trains can get, this can lead to many problems. For example, last year I went to visit relatives in Tipperary, and going back home I decided to get the train. I immediately regretted it, as for half of the journey I was stuck in a narrow corridor with at least 10 other people and when I finally got to the wheelchair bay, I was a further 10 minutes convincing people to move their luggage.While crowding is bound to happen on trains, people filling a wheelchair space with luggage is a serious issue that can cause injury if a wheelchair user unable to get into the space tips backwards and this shows how society rarely considers people with disabilities. While this sort of action is discouraged by Irish Rail, who state on the website CitizensInformation.ie that “You must [..] make sure your luggage is not causing inconvenience for other passengers.” (https://www.citizensinformation.ie/en/travel_and_recreation/public_transport/rail_services_in_ireland.html), this is not enforced.


Another problem that disabled people often face on trains is the lack of accessible toilet facilities. While many people try to avoid using them most modern trains have a restroom, often accessed through a door between carriages, and these facilities are far from accessible for wheelchair users. They are often claustrophobic and unequipped to even slightly fit a wheelchair. In other cases, toilet facilities are not present at all, and while this is an inconvenience for all it is made worse for disabled people that also have urinary incontinence to a degree due to disabilities such as Spina Bifida. For example, on December 26, 2018, broadcaster, access expert and wheelchair user Mik Scarlet recalled in a tweet that he went on a 4-hour train journey only to realize the train had no toilet, and this left him with an infection that stayed for 6 days. (https://twitter.com/MikScarlet/status/1077881171726483456). Another man, Christopher Stapleton, told The Guardian about the disabled toilets on Virgin Trains being constantly out of order despite complains, forcing him to wet himself on long journeys (https://www.theguardian.com/society/2017/may/21/disabled-man-forced-wet-himself-virgin-trains-toilet-out-of-order?CMP=twt_gu). From this, it’s clear that when public transport is not accessible, disabled people suffer.


Finally, accessibility in train stations, particularly in underground transit systems like the London Underground, is a major problem, and one that I have experienced first-hand.When travelling from place to place, it is never sure if the next station will be accessible or not. For example, I was recently in London to see the musical Hamilton. I decided to get to the theatre on the Underground and, upon reaching Victoria Station, I was told that the station was only accessible on one side which happened to be the opposite side to where the train stopped. Because of this, I had to travel two more stops to the nearest accessible station, wait for a train, get on that train and then go back to Victoria Station. Luckily, I had set out early but if another wheelchair user with a busy schedule was to do this, it would cause serious delays. This problem, of course, also exists in Ireland, particularly in rural areas.

Overall, trains are one of the most inaccessible forms of public transport out there if you have a disability, with many problems that can happen that at best cause delays and at worst lead to injury.
	
