---
author: Conall Knight
layout: post-full
title: Dublin Pub / Bar Access Survey - 4
tags: [wheelchair accessibility, disability rights]
category: [articles]
---
This is part four of a series of articles in which I will be discussing as many bars and pubs in the Dublin area as possible and rating them based on how accessible or inaccessible they are. These are the pubs and bars that I have covered so far:

PART 1
- P.Mac’s
- The Bernard Shaw

 

PART 2
- The Lucky Duck
- Against The Grain.

 

PART 3
- The Mercantile
- Peadar Kearney’s Pub

 

The next bar I will be reviewing is the Arlington Bar on Bachelor’s Walk. This bar has a wide, but slightly raised, entrance that should be accessible for most wheelchair users.Once inside, the Arlington Bar is slightly narrow, however there should be enough space for most wheelchairs to navigate, and the floor is made of smooth wood that is easy to push a wheelchair on. The bar is at a relatively low heightwith stools with a slight back for support, which I found to be good however if you can’t sit on normal stools, the minimal support provided will not be enough. Similarly, most of the seating in the Arlington Bar consists of stools that are very much like this, however there are some chairs. As the name suggests, the Arlington Bar is part of the Arlington Hotel, and thanks to this there is an accessible toilet in the hotel that can be accessed if you ask the staff. This facility is very well-kept, reliable and there is plenty of space in the room. Finally, there are no other floors in the bar, and so access to these is not a factor.

Overall, this is how I ranked the Arlington Bar:

Entrance: 3 / 5

Bar:  4 / 5  

Toilet: 5 / 5

Space: 3  / 5

Seating:  3 / 5

Floor:  4 \ 5

Other Floors: -

Overall: 22 / 30

 

In the last article I visited The Mercantile, a pub near Temple Bar. Temple Bar, for those of you who don’t know it, is notoriously bad for accessibility, so I decided to brace myself and visit another pub in the area, The Auld Dubliner. Immediately, a problem arises for access, the entrance. It is an extremely narrow set of double doors that in most cases will not be accessible. In fact, it only barely fit my wheelchair, which itself is little over 60cm wide. If you do manage to get in, it is a narrow building with a high bar and high stools. The seating in general is mostly stools, there are some chairs but not many. The floor is surprisingly smooth, being made of what feels like marble, and very easy to push a wheelchair on. There is no accessible toilet in the building and there is another floor, but the only way to get up to it is using the stairs. Overall, this is a very cramped, quite inaccessible puband I would not recommend it, especially not to wheelchair users.

Overall, The Auld Dubliner gets scores of:

Entrance: 2 / 5

Bar:  1 / 5  

Toilet: 0 / 5

Space: 3  / 5

Seating:  3 / 5

Floor:  5 \ 5

Other Floors: 0 / 5

Overall: 15 / 35

 
	
