---
author: conall-knight
layout: post-full
title: Hands Off - The Just Ask Don’t Grab Campaign
tags: [accessibility, disability rights]
category: [public transport]
---
In the modern world, you hear a lot about consent. Usually discussed in relation to sexual matters, it’s important to remember that as a concept it goes beyond that to many other aspects of life, including what I will be discussing, consent to physically give help to disabled people. If you are an abled person, there are many ways that you can help a disabled person, maybe you might guide a Blind person to their seat on a bus or give a wheelchair user a push to help them up a ramp. These are okay things to do, of course, but only with the disabled person’s permission, their consent.



Started in 2018 by visually impaired British disability activist Dr. Amy Kavanagh (@BlondeHistorian), the ‘Just Ask Don’t Grab’ campaign (https://caneadventures.blog/just-ask-dont-grab-campaign) is a mostly Twitter-based campaign that aims to raise awareness of how uninvited help can be at the least frightening and at worst dangerous (https://twitter.com/blondehistorian/status/1033660014232252416?lang=en). Using the hashtag #JustAskDontGrab, many disabled people have joined this campaign to share their stories of people helping them without consent and occasionally reacting angrily when told not to.


 
Firstly, Amy Kavanagh herself shares many experiences that have happened to her when travelling by bus. For example, in one tweet https://twitter.com/BlondeHistorian/status/1104698414564925441) she recalls almost being grabbed when getting off the bus with a colleague despite not needing any help and being accompanied by someone else. Luckily, she was not grabbed, but unfortunately it’s not always possible to stop someone from trying to help without consent, and this happened to Kavanagh when she was grabbed and dragged by a stranger when trying to exit a bus in Holborn (https://twitter.com/BlondeHistorian/status/1055159968079450112). Not only is this particularly terrifying for a visually impaired person who has no way of knowing this will happen especially in crowded,  noisy spaces, it can also very easily lead to them losing their balance and getting seriously injured.



Since starting the hashtag, many people have shared their experiences, and it became clear that unsolicited help is far from a problem faced only by ambulant visually impaired and/or Blind people. A particularly harrowing example of its relevance for wheelchair users emerged with disability activist Bronywn Berg’s retelling of how a man had grabbed her wheelchair outside a store in Nanaimo, Canada and pushed her without warning, not stopping despite her yelling at him to stop. Many people passed by and saw this happen, but none helped. (https://twitter.com/BergBronwyn/status/1084240379535392769?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1084240379535392769%7Ctwgr%5E393039363b74776565745f6d65646961&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cbc.ca%2Fnews%2Fcanada%2Fbritish-columbia%2Fa-wheelchair-user-s-guide-to-consent-1.4982862). Many mobility-aid users see their mobility aid as part of them and wheelchair users are no different, often choosing not to be pushed even when asked. As such, pushing a wheelchair user’s chair without consent is a serious breach of personal space and a stark reminder of why the ‘Just Ask, Don’t Grab’ campaign is needed.



Another reason for the existence of this campaign is that often when these stories emerge, the people telling them are told that they’re over-reacting, the other person was “only trying to help” after all. For many people it’s hard to believe that harmful actions can be done out of good will, and this type of reaction encourages people to continue helping without consent. Simply put, and Kavanagh has mentioned this many times herself, disabled people are expected to be grateful when help is forced upon them, even when that help puts them in danger. 



There are times, however, when people do ask if help is needed and provide help in a consensual way, and this is greatly appreciated. For example, Twitter user Becki Nunn (@BeckiNunnnn), a wheelchair user, says in a tweet that she had been struggling to open a heavy door when a man saw her and instead of pushing it without asking, asked if she needed help, asked what he should do and then, and only then, helped. (https://twitter.com/BeckiNunnnn/status/1137104312025440256). In another example, Dr. Amy Kavanagh recorded this exchange with a man in a train station in which he respectfully offered to help her find a train when she misses another due to nobody telling her where it was going. (https://twitter.com/BlondeHistorian/status/1125419431457427462). It really is that simple.



Overall, the ‘Just Ask, Don’t Grab’ campaign is a very important movement to raise awareness of the fact that it isn’t respectful or okay to force help upon a disabled person. The campaign is still going relatively strong and there are some similar tweets being made under a new campaign started by activist Dominick Evans known as #AbleismExists, and if you are on Twitter I recommend checking out these hashtags. Also, just to reiterate, if you are abled, I’m not trying to suggest that you shouldn’t help disabled people. We appreciate a bit of help every now and then, but just make sure to ask first. You never know, what you think is helpful might just be dangerous.
