
---
author: conall knight
layout: post-full
title: Which is more reliable for the disabled community mytaxi or lynktaxi
featimg: IMG-HERE
tags: [accessibility, TAG2]
category: [public transport]
---


For many disabled people, inaccessibility of buses, trains and other public transport means
that they must choose another way to get around, and for many people that is by taxi.
However, is this mode of transport really an accessible option for disabled passengers? This
is the question that I aim to answer in this article.
To start, some statistics. Since Mytaxi, or as it may be known by the time you read this Free
Now, is the biggest taxi app in Ireland, I will be starting with them. As of 2017, there were
10,000 Mytaxi drivers overall in Ireland and according to The Journal, 1,519 of these drive
accessible vehicles, or approximately 15.9% of the fleet. Of course, these numbers may have
increased since then, however these were the most recent figures we could find.
Considering that 13.5% of the Irish population are disabled, this is a good figure, and it’s
clear that any problem with Irish taxis is not due to Mytaxi. In fact, we would recommend
this app, what we wouldn’t recommend, however, is Lynk.
Compared to Mytaxi, Lynk only covers the Dublin area for the moment and hires
significantly less drivers, approximately 2,500 or a quarter of the size of the Mytaxi fleet.
Additionally, the option that Mytaxi gives to choose a wheelchair-accessible taxi is not very
visible. There is an option in the app’s settings to default to wheelchair accessible vehicles,
however as I will explain, even then this can lead to problems. Since 2016 was the last year
that all sources recorded data on this, I will be using that year to illustrate the following
point. According to the National Transport Authority, only 5% of the fleet in 2016,
approximately 125 taxis, were wheelchair accessible vehicles
(https://www.nationaltransport.ie/wp-
content/uploads/2011/12/Taxi_Statistics_for_Ireland_Statistical_Bulletin_No_1_2016.pdf).
When you consider that in 2016, disabled people made up 7% of the population of Lynk’s
main area, Dublin, (https://www.cso.ie/en/releasesandpublications/ep/p-
cp9hdc/p8hdc/p9d/) it’s clear that this is not good enough.
The low amount of accessible taxis in the Lynk fleet can lead to many problems, one of
which I will explain here. I am a student in TU Dublin, formerly Dublin Institute of
Technology. When I was in first year, I joined a few other people to revive the DIT Musical
Society, and as part of the committee I attended many Society Forums, held in different
campuses. For one forum, I ordered a taxi from Lynk a whole day in advance, making sure I
booked a wheelchair-accessible vehicle, to take me from Aungier Street to Bolton Street. I
waited on the day in the campus foyer, an hour before the forum.
Half an hour passed, and no word from the taxi that had confirmed they would pick me up.
At the time I was meant to be getting the taxi, I got a call from the driver. He said that traffic
was bad, and before hanging up asked “You’re in a wheelchair?”. I said yes, but I could fold
my chair up if needed. He didn’t reply, so I hung up.
A minute later I got a notification saying he cancelled on me.

At this point I knew I wouldn’t make it down to Bolton Street on time, but I waited it out. 15
minutes later I got a call from a person at Mytaxi, who explained that there were no
accessible vehicles nearby but there would be in 5 minutes or so. 10 more minutes passed,
and there was no word from them. At this point the forum had started, so I gave up and
went home. Not only would I have been the only one in the society to attend, but there
were important topics covered and my inability to get an accessible taxi put the entire
society at a disadvantage. This should give you an idea of how unreliable taxis are for
disabled people, and the fact that the first driver abandoned me after hearing that I’m a
wheelchair user is a clear indication of discrimination at work.
Wanting to prove that this is a larger issue than just a one-time occurrence, I turned to the
Disabled People of Ireland (https://www.facebook.com/groups/1728236704139635/)
Facebook group that has been included in a previous article, asking if they had any
unsatisfactory experiences with taxis. From this, we received some replies which confirmed
that I was not alone in this experienced. Others in the disabled community are often left
waiting long times for taxis from Mytaxi, and report that they have come across multiple
drivers that have decided picking up a wheelchair user is too much hassle and have simply
cancelled after seeing that their passenger is disabled. It was also said that they have
completely given up on Lynk as there is almost always at least an hour delay even when a
taxi has been pre-booked, and a taxi sometimes never even arrives.
Overall, while travelling by taxi, if you have the money, is a good accessible alternative to
public transport if you are a disabled person, we would strongly recommend using Mytaxi
and staying away from Lynk. If anyone working with Lynk is reading this, I hope we have
outlined the problems that currently exist, and that you take this feedback onboard.
